



Internet Research Task Force (IRTF)                           Y. N. Here
Request for Comments: 0                           Your Organization Here
Category: Informational                                    23 April 2024
ISSN: 2070-1721


         FrodoKEM: key encapsulation from learning with errors

Abstract

   This memo specifies FrodoKEM, an IND-CCA2 secure Key Encapsulation
   Mechanism (KEM).

   About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at ...  Status
   information for this document may be found at ...

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at ...

   Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on ...

   Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

   Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3

Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for informational purposes.

   This document is a product of the Internet Research Task Force
   (IRTF).  The IRTF publishes the results of Internet-related research
   and development activities.  These results might not be suitable for
   deployment.  This RFC represents the consensus of the CFRG Research
   Group of the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF).  Documents approved
   for publication by the IRSG are not candidates for any level of
   Internet Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc0.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

 FrodoKEM is a conservative yet practical post-quantum key encapsulation
 mechanism whose security derives from cautious parameterizations of the
 well-studied learning with errors problem, which in turn has close
 connections to conjectured-hard problems on generic, "algebraically
 unstructured" lattices.

 As a key encapsulation mechanism, FrodoKEM is a three-tuple of
 algorithms (_KeyGen_, _Encapsulate_, _Decapsulate_):

   *  _KeyGen_ takes no inputs, requires randomness, and outputs a
      private key and a public key;

   *  _Encapsulate_ takes as input a public key, requires randomness,
      and outputs a ciphertext and a shared secret;

   *  _Decapsulate_ takes as input a ciphertext and a private key, and
      outputs a shared secret.

 These algorithms are assembled as a two-pass protocol that allows two
 parties to derive a shared secret.  This shared secret can then be used
 to establish a secure communication channel using a symmetric-key
 algorithm.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 RFC2119 [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   FrodoKEM-640, FrodoKEM-976 and FrodoKEM-1344 are designed to be post-
   quantum IND-CCA2 secure KEMs at the security levels of AES-128,
   AES-192 and AES-256, respectively.

   Users are recommended to use the highest possible security level that
   a given application allows.  In particular, the designers of FrodoKEM
   recommend to use either FrodoKEM-976 or FrodoKEM-1344 for most
   applications, and limit the use of FrodoKEM-640 to applications that
   require short-term security.

   Lattice-based cryptographic schemes such as FrodoKEM are still
   relatively young.  Therefore, it is recommended to use FrodoKEM in
   combination with a classical scheme (e.g., based on elliptic curves)
   while our confidence in the security of lattice schemes increases
   over time.

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Your Name Here
   Your Organization Here
   Email: your.email@example.com
